
This document explains how the l10n_server suite (and l10n_client) modules are
intended to work together, and interact with other modules.

l10n_community
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1. The community server provides a database backend to store projects, releases
   and the translatable strings found in them. The data model is as follows:
  
    project =(1:n)> release =(1:n)> file =(1:n)> line =(1:n)> string =(1:n)> translation
    
   Which means that granular information is available about where strings are
   used. Extraction warning reports also have their place connected to releases.
   All these tables are only provided by this module though, and not filled
   up with actual data (with the exception of the translation table). Connector
   modules are expected to provide the project, release, file, line and string
   data, based on their own discovery mechanisms.
   
   This design allows the module suite to be used in corporate settings, where
   in-house translation teams need their own project releases translated, and
   they have no connection to drupal.org projects.

2. The community server is designed to be able to work with Organic Groups.
   Each language can have one organic group on the site, which provides a
   discusson space for group members *and* makes it possible to hand out
   permissions (ie. differentiate between group managers and members if a
   group needs this level of permission).
   
   Group managers can choose a permission model of either open or controlled.
   A controlled model allows members of the group to suggest translations,
   while approval rights are limited to group admins. An open model allows
   all members to suggest and approve as well.
   
3. Translations can be approached from the list of language groups or the
   list of projects. On the second level, detailed summaries related to the
   selected language or project are shown as well as other stats.
   These two interfaces allow people to get different overviews (summaries)
   of the translations hosted on the site, as well as make it possible to
   import and export translations based on languages or projects.
   
4. Translation can either happen on the site (which only requires a user
   account with privileges to translate) or off-site. The online interface
   allows translators to provide suggestions for strings.
   
5. Off-site translation support is possible with exporting Gettext PO(T)
   files of a specific project release. Translators can work with offline
   translation tools and import the modified PO files later. Exports can be
   generated in various formats.
      
6. Extracted strings are stored related to projects, releases, files
   and lines. So if a string appears multiple times in the same file
   but on different lines, these are stored as separate relations.
   Strings are only stored once, relations are made between lines and
   strings.
   
   Source strings also store optinal context information, which is supported
   from Drupal 7 in Drupal sites as well.
   
l10n_localpacks
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you are setting up l10n_server, the most likely setup is l10n_localpacks.

l10n_localpacks works off of a local directory, where packages are placed. The
module looks at that directory periodically and when new ones are found, their
parent projects and releases are created in the database, as well as their
source code is parsed.
 
l10n_client
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Although this module is hosted in its own separate project, it makes sense to
document it here because of the relations of architecture. l10n_client works
best with Drupal 6 and later because it requires a change made in Drupal 6 to
work (but a backport of that change is available with the Drupal 5 module).

1. By enabling locale module and l10n_client and adding at least one foreign
   language, when viewing pages in foreign languages, people with 'use on-page
   translation' permission associated can see a form to translate strings used
   to build the page viewed. Translations are saved with AJAX callbacks, so
   on-page translation is easy.

2. Sites running l10n_client can set up translations sharing with a central
   server at Administer >> Site configuration >> Languages >> Localization
   sharing. If a correct server address is specified, the list of languages
   supported there is shown.
   
3. Once the sharing is set up, to keep attribution intact, per-user API keys
   should also be set up. Each user should request and set their own API key
   via their user (My account) page on the client site.
